This README file contains information on building the meta-emenlow
BSP layer using any of the supported machine configurations, and
booting the images contained in the /binary directory.

If you're only interested in booting the images in the /binary
directory of a BSP tarball you've downloaded, there's nothing special
to do - the appropriate images are already in the /binary directory
depending on which BSP tarball you downloaded.

Please see the corresponding sections below for details.


Table of Contents
=================

 I. Building the meta-emenlow BSP layer
II. Booting the images in /binary


I. Building the meta-emenlow BSP layer
=======================================

The 'meta-intel' repository contains multiple branches, one
corresponding to each major release starting with 'laverne' (0.90), in
addition to the latest code which tracks the current master.

In order to build an image with BSP support for a given release, you
need to check out the 'meta-intel' branch corresponding to the release
you're building against e.g. to build for laverne (0.90), check out
the 'laverne' branch of both poky and 'meta-intel'.

Having done that, and assuming you cloned the 'meta-intel' repository
at the top-level of your yocto build tree, you can build an emenlow
image by adding the location of the meta-emenlow layer to
bblayers.conf e.g.:

  yocto/meta-intel/meta-emenlow \

To enable the emenlow layer, add the emenlow MACHINE to local.conf:

  MACHINE ?= "emenlow"

You should then be able to build an emenlow image as such:

  $ source poky-init-build-env
  $ bitbake poky-image-sato-live

At the end of a successful build, you should have a live image that
you can boot from a USB flash drive (see instructions on how to do
that below, in the section 'Booting the images from /binary').


II. Booting the images in /binary
=================================

This BSP contains bootable live images, which can be used to directly
boot Yocto off of a USB flash drive.

Under Linux, insert a USB flash drive.  Assuming the USB flash drive
takes device /dev/sdf, use dd to copy the live image to it.  For
example:

# dd if=poky-image-sato-live-emenlow-20101207053738.hddimg of=/dev/sdf
# sync
# eject /dev/sdf

This should give you a bootable USB flash device.  Insert the device
into a bootable USB socket on the target, and power on.  This should
result in a system booted to the Sato graphical desktop.

If you want a terminal, use the arrows at the top of the UI to move to
different pages of available applications, one of which is named
'Terminal'.  Clicking that should give you a root terminal.

If you want to ssh into the system, you can use the root terminal to
ifconfig the IP address and use that to ssh in.  The root password is
empty, so to log in type 'root' for the user name and hit 'Enter' at
the Password prompt: and you should be in.

----

If you find you're getting corrupt images on the USB (it doesn't show
the syslinux boot: prompt, or the boot: prompt contains strange
characters), try doing this first:

# dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sdf bs=1M count=512
