This README file contains information on building the meta-fishriver
BSP layer, and booting the images contained in the /binary directory.
Please see the corresponding sections below for details.


Table of Contents
=================

  I. Special notes on the meta-fishriver BSP layer
 II. Building the meta-fishriver BSP layer
III. Booting the images in /binary


II. Building the meta-fishriver BSP layer
=========================================

In order to build an image with BSP support for a given release, you
need to download the corresponding BSP tarball from the 'Board Support
Package (BSP) Downloads' page of the Yocto Project website.

Having done that, and assuming you extracted the BSP tarball contents
at the top-level of your yocto build tree, you can build a fishriver
image by adding the location of the meta-fishriver layer to
bblayers.conf e.g.:

  yocto/meta-intel/meta-fishriver \

To enable the fishriver layer, add the fishriver MACHINE to local.conf:

  MACHINE ?= "fishriver"

You should then be able to build a fishriver image as such:

  $ source poky-init-build-env
  $ bitbake poky-image-sato-live

At the end of a successful build, you should have a live image that
you can boot from a USB flash drive (see instructions on how to do
that below, in the section 'Booting the images from /binary').

As an alternative to downloading the BSP tarball, you can also work
directly from the meta-intel git repository.  For each BSP in the
'meta-intel' repository, there are multiple branches, one
corresponding to each major release starting with 'laverne' (0.90), in
addition to the latest code which tracks the current master.  Instead
of extracting a BSP tarball at the top level of your yocto build tree,
you can equivalently check out the appropriate branch from the
meta-intel repository at the same location.


III. Booting the images in /binary
==================================

This BSP contains bootable live images, which can be used to directly
boot Yocto off of a USB flash drive.

Under Linux, insert a USB flash drive.  Assuming the USB flash drive
takes device /dev/sdf, use dd to copy the live image to it.  For
example:

# dd if=poky-image-sato-live-fishriver-20101207053738.hddimg of=/dev/sdf
# sync
# eject /dev/sdf

This should give you a bootable USB flash device.  Insert the device
into a bootable USB socket on the target, and power on.  This should
result in a system booted to the Sato graphical desktop.

If you want a terminal, use the arrows at the top of the UI to move to
different pages of available applications, one of which is named
'Terminal'.  Clicking that should give you a root terminal.

If you want to ssh into the system, you can use the root terminal to
ifconfig the IP address and use that to ssh in.  The root password is
empty, so to log in type 'root' for the user name and hit 'Enter' at
the Password prompt: and you should be in.

----

If you find you're getting corrupt images on the USB (it doesn't show
the syslinux boot: prompt, or the boot: prompt contains strange
characters), try doing this first:

# dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sdf bs=1M count=512
